README.md, before:

#  Moonraker - API Web Server for Klipper

Moonraker is a Python 3 based web server that exposes APIs with which
client applications may use to interact with [Klipper](https://github.com/KevinOConnor/klipper). Communcation between
the Klippy host and Moonraker is done over a Unix Domain Socket.  Tornado
is used to provide Moonraker's server functionality.

Note that Moonraker does not come bundled with a client, you will need to
install one.  The following clients are currently available:
- [Mainsail](https://github.com/meteyou/mainsail) by Meteyou
- [Fluidd](https://github.com/cadriel/fluidd) by Cadriel
- [KlipperScreen](https://github.com/jordanruthe/KlipperScreen) by jordanruthe

### Changes

This section contains changelogs that users and developers may reference
to see if any action is necessary on their part.  The date of the most
recent change is included.

Users:\
[user_changes.md](/docs/user_changes.md) - March 10th 2021

Developers:\
[api_changes.md](/docs/api_changes.md) - March 15th 2021

Commit message:

readme:  Add link to Read The Docs
Update the links for user changes and api changes.

Signed-off-by:  Eric Callahan <arksine.code@gmail.com>

README.md, after:

#  Moonraker - API Web Server for Klipper

Moonraker is a Python 3 based web server that exposes APIs with which
client applications may use to interact with
[Klipper](https://github.com/KevinOConnor/klipper). Communcation between
the Klippy host and Moonraker is done over a Unix Domain Socket.  Tornado
is used to provide Moonraker's server functionality.

Documentation for users and developers can be found on
[Read the Docs](https://moonraker.readthedocs.io/en/latest/).

Note that Moonraker does not come bundled with a client, you will need to
install one.  The following clients are currently available:
- [Mainsail](https://github.com/meteyou/mainsail) by Meteyou
- [Fluidd](https://github.com/cadriel/fluidd) by Cadriel
- [KlipperScreen](https://github.com/jordanruthe/KlipperScreen) by jordanruthe


### Changes

This section contains changelogs that users and developers may reference
to see if any action is necessary on their part.  The date of the most
recent change is included.

Users:\
[user_changes.md](https://moonraker.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user_changes/) - March 10th 2021

Developers:\
[api_changes.md](https://moonraker.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api_changes/) - March 15th 2021
