docs/contributing.md, before:

# Contributing to Moonraker

While Moonraker exists as a service independently from Klipper, it relies
on Klipper to be useful.  Thus, the tentative plan is to eventually merge
the Moonraker application into the Klipper repo after Moonraker matures,
at which point this repo will be archived.  As such, contibuting guidelines
are near those of Klipper:

- All source files should begin with a copyright notice in the following
  format:

        # Module name and brief description of module
        #
        # Copyright (C) 2021 YOUR NAME <YOUR EMAIL ADDRESS>
        #
        # This file may be distributed under the terms of the GNU GPLv3 license

- No line in the source code or documentation should exceed 80 characters.
  Be sure there is no trailing whitespace.
- Each Commit message should be in the following format:

        module name: brief description of commit

        More detailed explanation if necessary.

        Signed-off-by:  Your Name <your email address>

- By signing off on commits, you acknowledge that you agree to the
  [developer certificate of origin](../developer-certificate-of-origin)
  shown below. Your signature must contain your real name and a current
  email address.

```text
Developer Certificate of Origin
Version 1.1

Copyright (C) 2004, 2006 The Linux Foundation and its contributors.
1 Letterman Drive
Suite D4700
San Francisco, CA, 94129

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this
license document, but changing it is not allowed.


Developer's Certificate of Origin 1.1

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

(a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I
    have the right to submit it under the open source license
    indicated in the file; or

(b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best
    of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source
    license and I have the right under that license to submit that
    work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part
    by me, under the same open source license (unless I am
    permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated
    in the file; or

(c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other
    person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified
    it.

(d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution
    are public and that a record of the contribution (including all
    personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is
    maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with
    this project or the open source license(s) involved.
```

Commit message:

docs: update contributing doc
Update the code style guidelines informing contributors that they should validate their code with pycodestyle and mypy before submission.

Signed-off-by:  Eric Callahan <arksine.code@gmail.com>

docs/contributing.md, after:

# Contributing to Moonraker

While Moonraker exists as a service independently from Klipper, it relies
on Klipper to be useful.  Thus, the tentative plan is to eventually merge
the Moonraker application into the Klipper repo after Moonraker matures,
at which point this repo will be archived.  As such, contibuting guidelines
are near those of Klipper:

- All source files should begin with a copyright notice in the following
  format:

        # Module name and brief description of module
        #
        # Copyright (C) 2021 YOUR NAME <YOUR EMAIL ADDRESS>
        #
        # This file may be distributed under the terms of the GNU GPLv3 license

- No line in the source code should exceed 80 characters.  Be sure there is no
  trailing whitespace.  To validate code before submission one may use `pycodestyle`
  with the following options:
      - `--ignore=E226,E301,E302,E303,W503,W504`
      - `--max-line-length=80`
      - `--max-doc-length=80`
- Generally speaking, each line in submitted documentation should also be no
  longer than 80 characters, however there are situations where this isn't
  possible, such as long hyperlinks or example return values.
- Python code should be fully annotated.  Moonraker uses the `mypy` static
  type checker for code validation with the following options:
      - `--ignore-missing-imports`
      - `--follow-imports=silent`
- Each Commit message should be in the following format:

        module name: brief description of commit

        More detailed explanation if necessary.

        Signed-off-by:  Your Name <your email address>

- By signing off on commits, you acknowledge that you agree to the
  [developer certificate of origin](../developer-certificate-of-origin)
  shown below. Your signature must contain your real name and a current
  email address.

```text
Developer Certificate of Origin
Version 1.1

Copyright (C) 2004, 2006 The Linux Foundation and its contributors.
1 Letterman Drive
Suite D4700
San Francisco, CA, 94129

Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies of this
license document, but changing it is not allowed.


Developer's Certificate of Origin 1.1

By making a contribution to this project, I certify that:

(a) The contribution was created in whole or in part by me and I
    have the right to submit it under the open source license
    indicated in the file; or

(b) The contribution is based upon previous work that, to the best
    of my knowledge, is covered under an appropriate open source
    license and I have the right under that license to submit that
    work with modifications, whether created in whole or in part
    by me, under the same open source license (unless I am
    permitted to submit under a different license), as indicated
    in the file; or

(c) The contribution was provided directly to me by some other
    person who certified (a), (b) or (c) and I have not modified
    it.

(d) I understand and agree that this project and the contribution
    are public and that a record of the contribution (including all
    personal information I submit with it, including my sign-off) is
    maintained indefinitely and may be redistributed consistent with
    this project or the open source license(s) involved.
```
